Proceedings of the Twenty-Eighth International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence (IJCAI-19)

Multiple Noisy Label Distribution Propagation for Crowdsourcing
Hao Zhang , Liangxiao Jiang∗ and Wenqiang Xu
Department of Computer Science, China University of Geosciences, Wuhan 430074, China
ljiang@cug.edu.cn

Abstract
Crowdsourcing services provide a fast, efficient,
and cost-effective means of obtaining large labeled
data for supervised learning. Ground truth inference, also called label integration, designs proper
aggregation strategies to infer the unknown true label of each instance from the multiple noisy label
set provided by ordinary crowd workers. However, to the best of our knowledge, nearly all existing
label integration methods focus solely on the multiple noisy label set itself of the individual instance
while totally ignoring the intercorrelation among
multiple noisy label sets of different instances. To
solve this problem, a multiple noisy label distribution propagation (MNLDP) method is proposed in
this study. MNLDP first transforms the multiple
noisy label set of each instance into its multiple
noisy label distribution and then propagates its multiple noisy label distribution to its nearest neighbors. Consequently, each instance absorbs a fraction of the multiple noisy label distributions from
its nearest neighbors and yet simultaneously maintains a fraction of its own original multiple noisy
label distribution. Promising experimental results on simulated and real-world datasets validate the
effectiveness of our proposed method.

1

Introduction

In many pervasive applications of supervised learning, particularly with the rapid growth of deep learning, one frequently
encounters the situation in which extensive data remain unlabeled. Traditionally, labeling tasks have been typically processed by domain experts. This provides accurate labels but
is inefficient and involves a high cost [Tian and Zhu, 2015;
Zhang et al., 2016b]. Thus, crowdsourcing has emerged as
an effective paradigm for annotating large datasets in domains
such as computer vision and natural language processing [Liu
et al., 2012; Karger et al., 2014]. Crowdsourcing platforms
such as Amazon Mechanical Turk1 and Crowdflower2 provide participative online markets where the requesters publish
∗

Corresponding author
http://www.mturk.com
2
http://crowdflower.com
1

1473

specific types of human intelligence tasks (HITs) and collect
numerous labels from ordinary labelers (or annotators) in a
short time and at a relatively low cost. However, the qualities of collected labels provided by a single crowd labeler
are often poor and the noise associated with the labels can
compromise practical applications. To our knowledge, these
unreliable labels may be caused by personal preference, low
payment for each task, and varying cognitive abilities [Sheng
et al., 2008; Rodrigues and Pereira, 2017; Qiu et al., 2018].
To solve this problem, multiple labels are frequently requested from different crowd labelers for a single instance. In
other words, repeated labeling is performed [Li et al., 2016;
Zhang and Wu, 2018; Li et al., 2019]. After acquiring multiple noisy label sets of each instance by repeated labeling,
label integration methods can be used to infer (estimate) the
unknown true label of each instance.
Consequently, integrating labels from multiple noisy labels has recently attracted considerable research attention
[Sheshadri and Lease, 2013; Zhang et al., 2016a]. The
most straightforward label integration (consensus) method
is majority voting (MV), which naively assumes that all labelers have the same reliability. In addition to MV, more
sophisticated methods have been proposed to improve the
performance of label integration [Dawid and Skene, 1979;
Whitehill et al., 2009; Raykar et al., 2010; Demartini et al.,
2012; Karger et al., 2014; Zhang et al., 2016a; Rodrigues
and Pereira, 2017]. These improved methods have clearly
achieved remarkable progress to model crowdsourcing based
on different parameters such as the reliabilities of labelers,
the difficulties of instances, and labeling biases. However, to
the best of our knowledge, nearly all existing label integration
methods focus solely on the multiple noisy label set itself of
the individual instance while totally ignoring the intercorrelation among multiple noisy label sets of different instances.
To solve this problem, in this study we propose a multiple noisy label distribution propagation (MNLDP) method.
MNLDP focuses on the intercorrelation among multiple
noisy label sets of different instances instead of directly estimating the aforementioned parameters. In MNLDP, the traditional multiple noisy labels are first transformed into multiple noisy label distributions, and a feature space based on the
overlapped local linear neighborhood patches is constructed,
where the edge weights of each patch can be calculated by a
standard quadratic programming procedure. Then, the topo-

Proceedings of the Twenty-Eighth International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence (IJCAI-19)

logical structure of the feature space is globally shared with
the multiple noisy label space for simplicity. With the multiple noisy label space available, MNLDP then propagates the
multiple noisy label distribution of each instance to its nearest
neighbors. Consequently, each instance absorbs a fraction of
the multiple noisy label distributions from its nearest neighbors and yet simultaneously maintains a fraction of its own
multiple noisy label distribution.
The main contributions of this work are briefly summarized
as follows: 1) The multiple noisy label integration problem is
transformed into an MNLDP problem, which provides a new
perspective from which to solve the multiple noisy label integration problem. 2) A novel MNLDP algorithm is designed
to exploit the intercorrelation among multiple noisy label sets
of different instances, and thus the effect of the multiple noisy
label set itself of the individual instance is weakened.
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. Section 2 introduces related work. Section 3 describes the proposed MNLDP method in detail. Section 4 presents a convergence analysis of MNLDP. Section 5 describes the experimental setup and results. Section 6 concludes the study and
outlines the main directions for future work.

2

Related Work

Because of the openness of crowdsourcing, inferring the unknown true labels of instances from multiple noisy labels
is a challenge. Many label integration (consensus) methods have been proposed for crowdsourcing. Majority voting
(MV) [Sheng et al., 2008] is the simplest and most effective
method. However, it naively assumes that all labelers have
the same reliability, which weakens its performance in many
real-world crowdsourcing scenarios.
To improve the quality of integration labels, researchers
have proposed numerous label integration (consensus) methods. [Dawid and Skene, 1979] proposed a method (DS) based
on the expectation maximization algorithm, which uses the
maximum likelihood estimation to estimate a confusion matrix for each labeler and a class prior. [Demartini et al.,
2012] proposed the ZenCrowd method (ZC), which uses only
a two-element parameter to weight the reliability of a labeler.
[Karger et al., 2014] proposed a belief propagation-like label integration method (KOS) based on the reliabilities of labelers. [Zhang et al., 2016a] proposed another novel method
called the ground truth inference using clustering (GTIC) that
is based on Bayesian statistics for multi-class labeling. Focusing on binary labeling, [Raykar et al., 2010] proposed a
Bayesian estimation-based method to model the two parameters of sensitivity and specificity to denote labelers’ biases
toward positive and negative instances, respectively. [Whitehill et al., 2009] proposed a method to infer the true labels,
the expertise of workers, and the difficulty of items simultaneously. [Rodrigues and Pereira, 2017] proposed a deep neural
network layer known as a crowd layer. [Guan et al., 2017]
proposed an approach for training deep neural networks that
exploits information about the annotators.
All of these improved methods have clearly achieved remarkable progress to model crowdsourcing based on different aspects such as the reliabilities of labelers, the difficulties

1474

of instances, and labeling biases. However, to the best of our
knowledge, nearly all existing label integration methods focus solely on the multiple noisy label set itself of the individual instance while totally ignoring the intercorrelation among
multiple noisy label sets of different instances. To solve this
problem, we propose an MNLDP method. In MNLDP, each
instance absorbs a fraction of the multiple noisy label distributions from its nearest neighbors and yet simultaneously
maintains a fraction of its own multiple noisy label distribution.
Please note that our proposed MNLDP is entirely different from the well-known label distribution learning (LDL)
[Geng, 2016], which is a new machine learning paradigm in
which each instance is annotated by a label distribution. The
label distribution in LDL covers a certain number of labels,
representing the description degree of each label to the data point. One label may only partially describe the instance,
but that the label describes the instance is completely true.
However, in a multiple noisy label distribution, only one label is regarded as completely true, and the other labels are
all wrong. Please also note that our proposed MNLDP is entirely different from the linear neighborhood propagation (LNP) [Wang and Zhang, 2008] for semi-supervised learning.
LNP propagates the labels from the labeled points to the whole dataset using these linear neighborhoods with sufficient
smoothness. By contrast, MNLDP propagates the multiple
noisy label distributions rather than the multiple noisy labels
themselves.

3

MNLDP Method

In crowdsourcing scenarios, a dataset can be expressed as
S = {(xi , Li )|1 ≤ i ≤ n}, where xi denotes the i-th
(i = 1, 2, · · · , n) instance, and Li = {lir }R
r=1 denotes its
multiple noisy label set provided by R labelers. Each element
lir represents the label provided by the r-th (r = 1, 2, · · · , R)
labeler, which takes the value from the class label set Y =
{y1 , y2 , · · · , yc }. To construct the multiple noisy label space,
Li is first transformed into a multiple noisy label distribution
Pi = {pyi 1 , pyi 2 , · · · , pyi c }, where pyi m (m = 1, 2, · · · , c) denotes the probability (frequency) P
that all labelers label xi as
c
ym . Obviously, pyi m ∈ [0, 1] and m=1 pyi m = 1. Based on
the defined distribution, the dataset S can then be transformed
into S = {(xi , Pi )|1 ≤ i ≤ n}.
In addition, to construct the multiple noisy label space, we
still must construct a feature space with the neighbor information of each data point. As with many common graph-based
learning methods, the topological structure of the feature space can be represented by G =< V, E, W >, where V is the
vertex set corresponding to data points, E is the edge set associated with each edge eij representing the relationship between each pair of data points xi and xj , and W is the weight
matrix of G with each element wij measuring how similar xi
is to xj . Note that usually wij 6= wji .
For computational simplicity, we assume that each data
point can be optimally reconstructed using a linear combination of its neighbors in the feature space [Roweis and Saul,
2000; Wang and Zhang, 2008]. Thus, our objective is to min-

Proceedings of the Twenty-Eighth International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence (IJCAI-19)

imize the following:
ε(W ) =

n
X

kxi −

P

2
j:xj ∈N (xi ) wij xj k

(1)

i=1

where N (xi ) is the set of the k-nearest neighbors of xi . We
further constrain 1T wi = 1, where

wij , if xj ∈ N (xi )
(2)
wi =
0,
otherwise
P
j wij = 1 and wij ≥ 0. For the local weight matrix w i ,
the minimization can be defined as:
P
ε(wi ) = j,k:xj ,xk ∈N (xi ) wij Gijk wik
(3)
where Gijk = (xi − xj )T (xi − xk ) is the (j, k)-th entry of
the local Gram matrix Gi .
Thus, the construction can be solved by the following n
standard least square programming problems, which is formulated as Equation 4. Note that we first obtain a series of
weight matrix wi and then merge them to construct the whole
space.
minwi
s.t.

wTi Gi wi
1T wi = 1
∀wij ∈ wi , wij ≥ 0

(4)

Inspired by the smoothness assumption [Zhu et al., 2005]
and multi-label manifold learning [Hou et al., 2016], we
can naturally infer that the multiple noisy label space locally
shares the topological structure of the feature space. However, learning the topological structure from the feature space
to the multiple noisy label space is difficult. Thus, we further
assume that the global topological structure can be simply
shared. With the W and the aforementioned assumption, the
multiple noisy label space is approximately formulated as:
P
µi ∝ j:xj ∈N (xi ) wij µj
(5)
where µi = {µyi 1 , µyi 2 , ..., µyi c } is the multiple noisy label
distribution of xi in the propagation. µi is different from Pi .
Pi is the initial multiple noisy label distribution. However, µi
is the multiple noisy label distribution at a particular propagation state. Although this hypothesis is naive, we believe it is
reasonable in most cases because the annotators provide the
multiple noisy labels based on the features of the instance.
In the t-th propagation, the propagated multiple noisy label
distribution can be divided into two sections: 1) a fraction of
the multiple noisy label distributions from its nearest neighbors, and 2) some multiple noisy label information of its initial state (i.e., Pi ). Thus, the µi at the t+1-th propagation is:
P
µt+1
= αi j:xj ∈N (xi ) wij µtj + (1 − αi )Pi
(6)
i
where αi ∈ (0, 1) is the controlling factor that adjusts the
proportions from its nearest neighbors and its own original
state (distribution). More specifically, when αi < 0.5, the
propagated multiple noisy label distribution relies more on its
own original state. The extreme case is αi = 0, and thus our

1475

Figure 1: Framework of MNLDP.

MNLDP degenerates into the simplest MV (i.e., µi = Pi ).
Conversely, when αi > 0.5, the propagated multiple noisy
label distribution relies more on its nearest neighbors. When
αi = 1, MNLDPP
completely abandons its own original state
Pi (i.e., µt+1
= j:xj ∈N (xi ) wij µtj ).
i
We estimate the controlling factor αi using the label uncertainty [Sheng et al., 2008]. The detailed equation is:
Pc
α ym
(7)
αi = m=1 i + η
c
where η ∈ [0, 0.5] is a hyper-parameter used to adjust the
influence from its nearest neighbors, and
αiym = min{Id (Lypm +1, Lynm +1), 1−Id (Lypm +1, Lynm +1)}
(8)
where
Id (Lypm + 1, Lynm + 1) =

PLypm +Lynm +1
m
j=Ly
p +1

ym
m
ym
ym
(Ly
p +Ln +1)!
dj (1 − d)Lp +Ln +1−j
ym
m
j!(Ly
p +Ln +1−j)!

(9)
where Lypm is the number of the class label ym , Lynm is the
number of other classes, and the decision threshold d = 0.5.
After a certain number of iterations, Equation 6 reaches to
a state of convergence. The convergence analysis of Equation
6 is presented in Section 4. Let µi = {µyi m }cm=1 be the final
multiple noisy label distribution of xi . Its integration label is
then defined as:
c(xi ) = arg max µyi m

(10)

ym ∈Y

Figure 1 graphically shows the basic framework of our proposed MNLDP.
Now, let us take an artificial binary toy classification
dataset as an example to illustrate the process and effectiveness of our proposed MNLDP. The dataset is artificially generated from two interleaving half circles, and the standard
deviation of the Gaussian noise is 0.1. It contains 200 data points with two-dimensional features. We then employ 20
simulated labelers who possess the same level of reliability
to label each point. In our experiments, we set the number

Proceedings of the Twenty-Eighth International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence (IJCAI-19)

P
Because of αi wij ∈ αW ≥ 0 and
=
i αi wij
αi , from the Perron-Frobenius theorem, the spectral radius of αW ranges from rmin (αW ) to rmax (αW )
(i.e., rmin (αW ) ≤ ρ(αW
P ) ≤ rmax (αW )), where
rmin (αW ) = mini j αi wij and rmax (αW ) =
P
maxi j αi wij . The eigendecomposition of (αW )t can be
represented as:
(a)

(αW )t = V diag(λ)t V −1

(b)

(14)

where diag(λ) is the diagonal matrix composed of all eigenvalues and V is connected by all eigenvectors. With the process of propagation, the eigenvalues, which are less than 1,
are reduced to 0. Thus,
lim (αW )t = lim V diag(λ)t V −1 = 0

t→∞

(c)

(d)

of nearest neighbors k to 5, and then we observe the label integration process and results when the numbers of iterations
are 0, 10, and 20.
Figure 2 graphically shows the detailed process and results,
where Figure 2 (a) shows the original data with the true class
label distributions. The blue squares and red triangles represent two classes. When the numbers of iterations are 0, 10,
and 20, the label integration process and results are shown
in Figure 2 (b), Figure 2 (c), and Figure 2 (d), respectively.
The grey dashed lines among the different data points connect their five nearest neighbors. From these, the multiple
noisy label space is constructed and then the multiple noisy
label distributions are propagated through the multiple noisy
label space.

Convergence Analysis of MNLDP

In this section, we analyze the convergence property of MNLDP theoretically.
Let the entire propagative multiple noisy label distribution sequence U t =
[(µt1 )T , (µt2 )T , · · · , (µtn )T ]T , the entire initial multiple noisy
label distribution sequence P = [P1T , P2T , · · · , PnT ]T , and
the diagonal matrix be expressed as:


α1 · · ·
0

.. 
α =  ...
(11)
αi
. 
0 · · · αn
where αi is the controlling factor for xi . Equation 6 can then
be rewritten as:
U t+1 = αW U t + (1 − α)P

(12)

Because the initial condition is U 0 = P, Equation 12 becomes:
U t = (αW )t P +

t−1
X

(αW )i (1 − α)P

(15)

Pt−1
where i=0 (αW )i can be regarded as the infinite series. It
is rewritten as:
t−1
X
1 − (αW )t
(αW )i =
(16)
1 − αW
i=0

Figure 2: Label integration process and results on the toy dataset.

4

t→∞

(13)

i=0

1476

Therefore,
lim

t→∞

t−1
X

(αW )i = (1 − αW )−1

(17)

i=0

Based on this analysis, U t will converge to:
lim U t = (1 − αW )−1 (1 − α)P

t→∞

5

(18)

Experiments and Results

We validated the effectiveness of our proposed MNLDP by
comparing it with five baseline methods, namely, MV, DS,
ZC, KOS, and GTIC on simulated and real-world datasets.
We implemented our proposed MNLDP on the crowd environment and its knowledge analysis (CEKA) platform [Zhang
et al., 2016b] and used the existing implementations of MV,
DS, ZC, KOS, and GTIC on the CEKA platform [Zhang et
al., 2016b]. In MNLDP, we set the number of nearest neighbors k to 5 and the hyper-parameter η to 0.5.

5.1

Experiments on Simulated Datasets

To validate the effectiveness of our proposed MNLDP in a slightly more controlled environment, six popular benchmark
datasets were used by simulating multiple labelers with different levels of expertise. Table 1 provides detailed information on these datasets, which came from the University
of California at Irvine (UCI) repository and represent a wide
range of domains and data characteristics.
To simulate a crowdsourcing process to obtain multiple
noisy labels of each instance, the original true labels of all
instances were hidden. For each labeler, the original true label was assigned to each instance with the probability p and
any one of false labels otherwise. To maintain the robustness
of the experiments under different situations, two simulating
strategies were considered:
1. In the first series of experiments, the labeling quality of
each labeler was fixed at 0.6 and the number of labelers
varied from 3 to 50.

Proceedings of the Twenty-Eighth International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence (IJCAI-19)

Dataset
Glass
Ionosphere
Iris
Image Segmentation
Vehicle
Vote

Features
9
35
4
19
18
17

Instances
214
351
150
2310
846
435

Classes
7
2
3
7
4
2

Table 1: Six UCI datasets used in the experiments.

(a)

(c)

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

(b)

(e)
(f)
Figure 4: Integration accuracy comparisons in the second series of
experiments, where the number of labelers was fixed at 10.

(d)

(e)
(f)
Figure 3: Integration accuracy comparisons in the first series of experiments, where the labeling quality of each labeler was fixed at
0.6.

2. In the second series of experiments, the number of labelers was fixed at 10 and the labeling quality of each
labeler was randomly generated from a uniform distribution on the interval [0.1, 0.95].
After obtaining the multiple noisy label set of each instance, we applied label integration (consensus) methods to
infer its integration label. We know that each simulation process has a certain degree of randomness that cannot be avoided. To reduce the fluctuations caused by this randomness,
each experiment was repeated 20 times independently and the
integration accuracies were averaged.
Figure 3 displays the detailed comparison results for the
first series of experiments. From these results, we can see
that: 1) The integration accuracy of MNLDP was much higher than the five baseline methods, particularly when the number of labelers was less than 10. 2) The differences among
the different label integration (consensus) methods gradually

1477

disappeared as the number of labelers increased, particularly
when the number of labelers approached 50.
Figure 4 displays the detailed comparison results for the
second series of experiments. From these comparison results, we can see that: 1) As expected, the integration accuracy
improved as the labeling quality of each labeler increased. 2)
Compared to the five baseline methods, an apparent turning
point was reached, which mainly concentrated at around 0.3
in the different datasets. When the labeling quality of each
labeler was below this turning point, our proposed MNLDP
was even worse than a few of the baseline methods. However,
when the labeling quality of each labeler surpassed this turning point, our proposed MNLDP significantly outperformed
all the baseline methods until the labeling quality approached
0.7. 3) The differences among different label integration
(consensus) methods gradually disappeared when the labeling quality reached 0.8.
Based on these comparison results, we can see that the performance of MNLDP was much better overall, that is, more
stable and robust than all the other baseline methods. This is
because, in MNLDP, each instance absorbed a fraction of the
multiple noisy label distributions from its nearest neighbors
and yet simultaneously maintained a fraction of its own original multiple noisy label distribution. Therefore, when the
labeling quality of each labeler was very low (for example,
less than 0.3), MNLDP was even worse than some existing
baseline methods because it enlarged the incorrect label distributions in the process of propagation.

Proceedings of the Twenty-Eighth International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence (IJCAI-19)

Information
Leaves LabelMe Music Genre
Classes
6
8
10
Features
64
512
31
Instances
384
1000
700
Labelers
83
59
44
Labels
3840
2547
2946
Mean Labeling Quality 0.638
0.692
0.7328

Method
MV
DS
ZC
KOS
GTIC
MNLDP

Table 2: Three real-world crowdsourced datasets used in the experiments.

5.2

4

LabelMe
76.2
74.7
77.2
8.9
76.7
82.3

Music Genre
70.57
52.57
78.29
22.71
70.71
79

Table 3: Integration accuracy (%) comparisons on three real-world
crowdsourced datasets.

Experiments on Real-World Datasets

To evaluate further the performance of MNLDP, we conducted our experiments on three real-world crowdsourced datasets: Leaves, LableMe, and Music Genre, which were collected from Amazon Mechanical Turk (AMT) and are publicly
available.
The crowdsourced dataset Leaves [Zhang et al., 2016b]
is a traditional classification dataset, which distinguishes six
types of leaves depending on their shape and other characteristics. The LabelMe dataset [Rodrigues and Pereira, 2017]
is an image classification domain derived from LabelMe data [Russell et al., 2008]. To find neighbor images, MNLDP computes the image similarities based on 512 numerical
features determined by the GIST descriptor 3 , which was
proposed by [Oliva and Torralba, 2001]. The Music Genre
dataset 4 is published on AMT and used to collect multiple
noisy labels by [Rodrigues et al., 2013]. Because different genres have different extraction criteria and the criteria are
non-overlapping [Aucouturier and Pachet, 2003], we utilized
Principal Component Analysis to extract 31 pivotal features
from the 124-dimensional full combined feature vector. Table
2 summarizes the detailed data characteristics of these crowdsourced datasets.
Table 3 presents detailed comparison results obtained by
different label integration (consensus) methods on three realworld crowdsourced datasets. As expected, our proposed
MNLDP significantly outperformed all the baseline methods. The integration accuracies of MNLDP on three real-world
crowdsourced datasets were 65.1%, 82.3%, and 79%, respectively, which were much higher than those of MV, DS, ZC,
KOS, and GTIC. Based on these results, we can draw nearly
the same conclusions as those from the simulated benchmark
datasets. However, we also should note that the KOS performed very poorly on both the LabelMe and Music Genre
datasets. We believe that this was because some labelers only
labeled a tiny portion of instances, and KOS failed to estimate
the reliabilities of these labelers.
To explore the effect of the global sharing of the topological structure on both the feature and multiple noisy label spaces, we modified the parameters of the GIST descriptor
to obtain different features on the LabelMe dataset. Based
on these different features, the degree of sharing between the
feature and multiple noisy label spaces was approximated as
different. In the GIST descriptor, the number of blocks and
scale of filters were fixed at 4. In addition, the number of orientations per scale was changed from 2 to 16, which indicates
3

Leaves
63.8
63.54
64.58
64.5
62.24
65.1

http://people.csail.mit.edu/torralba/code/spatialenvelope
http://fprodrigues.com//mturk-datasets.tar.gz

1478

Figure 5: Integration accuracy (%) comparisons with different numbers of orientations per scale.

that the number of features varied from 2 ∗ 4 ∗ 42 = 128 to
16 ∗ 4 ∗ 42 = 1024. Figure 5 shows that the integration accuracy (%) improved as the number of different orientations
per scale increased. These comparison results reveal that the
integration accuracy (%) of our proposed MNLDP steady improved as the number of different orientations per scale increased until the number of generated features approximated
9 ∗ 4 ∗ 42 = 576. These results also reveal the rationality for
the global sharing of the topological structure between the
feature and multiple noisy label spaces.

6

Conclusion and Feature Work

This study proposed an MNLDP method to improve the performance of label integration for crowdsourcing. MNLDP
first transforms the multiple noisy label set of each instance
into its multiple noisy label distribution and then propagates
this distribution to its nearest neighbors. The extensive experimental results on simulated and real-world crowdsourced
datasets show that, in many cases, our proposed MNLDP significantly outperformed all the other state-of-the-art label integration (consensus) methods used in comparison.
For simplicity, we naively assumed that the multiple noisy
label space shared nearly the same topological structure with
the feature space. We noticed that this global sharing assumption is quite simple and rough. Therefore, alleviating this assumption more or less to improve further the performance of
the current MNLDP and strengthen its advantage is a main
direction for our future work.

Acknowledgments
The work was partially supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (U1711267), the Open
Research Project of Hubei Key Laboratory of Intelligent Geo-Information Processing (KLIGIP201601) and the
Fundamental Research Funds for the Central Universities
(CUG2018JM18 and CUGGC03).

Proceedings of the Twenty-Eighth International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence (IJCAI-19)

References
[Aucouturier and Pachet, 2003] Jean-Julien Aucouturier and
Francois Pachet. Representing musical genre: A state of
the art. Journal of New Music Research, 32(1):83–93,
2003.
[Dawid and Skene, 1979] Alexander Philip Dawid and Allan M. Skene. Maximum likelihood estimation of observer error-rates using the EM algorithm. Applied statistics,
28(1):20–28, 1979.
[Demartini et al., 2012] Gianluca Demartini, Djellel Eddine
Difallah, and Philippe Cudré-Mauroux. Zencrowd: leveraging probabilistic reasoning and crowdsourcing techniques for large-scale entity linking. In Proceedings of the
21st international conference on World Wide Web, pages
469–478, 2012.
[Geng, 2016] Xin Geng.
Label distribution learning.
IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering,
28(7):1734–1748, 2016.
[Guan et al., 2017] Melody Y. Guan, Varun Gulshan, Andrew M. Dai, and Geoffrey E. Hinton. Who said what:
Modeling individual labelers improves classification. arXiv preprint arXiv:1703.08774, 2017.
[Hou et al., 2016] Peng Hou, Xin Geng, and Min-Ling
Zhang. Multi-label manifold learning. In Association for
the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence (AAAI), pages
1680–1686, 2016.
[Karger et al., 2014] David R. Karger, Sewoong Oh, and Devavrat Shah. Budget-optimal task allocation for reliable
crowdsourcing systems. Operations Research, 62(1):1–
24, 2014.
[Li et al., 2016] Chaoqun Li, Victor S. Sheng, Liangxiao
Jiang, and Hongwei Li. Noise filtering to improve data
and model quality for crowdsourcing. Knowledge-Based
Systems, 107:96–103, 2016.
[Li et al., 2019] Chaoqun Li, Liangxiao Jiang, and Wenqiang Xu. Noise correction to improve data and model
quality for crowdsourcing. Engineering Applications of
Artificial Intelligence, 82:184–191, 2019.
[Liu et al., 2012] Qiang Liu, Jian Peng, and Alexander Ihler. Variational inference for crowdsourcing. In Advances
in Neural Information Processing Systems 25, pages 692–
700, 2012.
[Oliva and Torralba, 2001] Aude Oliva and Antonio Torralba. Modeling the shape of the scene: A holistic representation of the spatial envelope. International journal of
computer vision, 42(3):145–175, 2001.
[Qiu et al., 2018] Chen Qiu, Liangxiao Jiang, and Zhihua
Cai. Using differential evolution to estimate labeler quality for crowdsourcing. In Pacific Rim International Conference on Artificial Intelligence, pages 165–173, 2018.
[Raykar et al., 2010] Vikas C. Raykar, Shipeng Yu, Linda H.
Zhao, Gerardo Hermosillo Valadez, Charles Florin, Luca
Bogoni, and Linda Moy. Learning from crowds. Journal of
Machine Learning Research, 11(Apr):1297–1322, 2010.

1479

[Rodrigues and Pereira, 2017] Filipe Rodrigues and Francisco C. Pereira. Deep learning from crowds. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1709.01779, 2017.
[Rodrigues et al., 2013] Filipe Rodrigues, Francisco Pereira,
and Bernardete Ribeiro. Learning from multiple annotators: distinguishing good from random labelers. Pattern
Recognition Letters, 34(12):1428–1436, 2013.
[Roweis and Saul, 2000] Sam T. Roweis and Lawrence K.
Saul. Nonlinear dimensionality reduction by locally linear embedding. Science, 290(5500):2323–2326, 2000.
[Russell et al., 2008] Bryan C. Russell, Antonio Torralba,
Kevin P. Murphy, and William T. Freeman. Labelme: a
database and web-based tool for image annotation. International journal of computer vision, 77(1-3):157–173,
2008.
[Sheng et al., 2008] Victor S. Sheng, Foster Provost, and
Panagiotis G. Ipeirotis. Get another label? improving data
quality and data mining using multiple noisy labelers. In
Proceedings of the 14th ACM SIGKDD international conference on Knowledge discovery and data mining, pages
614–622, 2008.
[Sheshadri and Lease, 2013] Aashish
Sheshadri
and
Matthew Lease. Square: A benchmark for research
on computing crowd consensus. In First AAAI Conference
on Human Computation and Crowdsourcing, pages
156–164, 2013.
[Tian and Zhu, 2015] Tian Tian and Jun Zhu. Max-margin
majority voting for learning from crowds. In Advances
in Neural Information Processing Systems, pages 1612–
1620, 2015.
[Wang and Zhang, 2008] Fei Wang and Changshui Zhang.
Label propagation through linear neighborhoods. IEEE
Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering,
20(1):55–67, 2008.
[Whitehill et al., 2009] Jacob Whitehill, Ting fan Wu, Jacob
Bergsma, Javier R. Movellan, and Paul L. Ruvolo. Whose
vote should count more: Optimal integration of labels
from labelers of unknown expertise. In Advances in neural
information processing systems, pages 2035–2043, 2009.
[Zhang and Wu, 2018] Jing Zhang and Xindong Wu. Multilabel inference for crowdsourcing. In Proceedings of the
24th ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery & Data Mining, pages 2738–2747, 2018.
[Zhang et al., 2016a] Jing Zhang, Victor S. Sheng, Jian Wu,
and Xindong Wu. Multi-class ground truth inference
in crowdsourcing with clustering. IEEE Transactions
on Knowledge and Data Engineering, 28(4):1080–1085,
2016.
[Zhang et al., 2016b] Jing Zhang, Xindong Wu, and Victor S. Sheng. Learning from crowdsourced labeled data:
a survey. Artificial Intelligence Review, 46(4):1–34, 2016.
[Zhu et al., 2005] Xiaojin Zhu, John Lafferty, and Ronald
Rosenfeld. Semi-supervised learning with graphs. PhD
thesis, Carnegie Mellon University, language technologies
institute, school of computer science, 2005.

